Initial checking of README.md (#7)
Azure-Samples/openai-end-to-end-basic: README.md

> # OpenAI end-to-end basic reference implementation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Azure OpenAI end-to-end basic reference implementation
```

> This reference implementation illustrates a basic approach for authoring and running a chat application in a single region with Azure Machine Learning and OpenAI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This reference implementation illustrates a basic approach for authoring and running a chat application in a single region with Azure Machine Learning and Azure OpenAI. This reference implementation supports the [Basic Azure OpenAI end-to-end chat reference architecture](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/ai-ml/architecture/basic-openai-e2e-chat).
```

- Creating prompts
- Querying data stores for grounding data
- Python code
- Calling Large Language Models (LLMs)

The reference implementation illustrates a basic example of a chat application.  For a reference implementation that implements enterprise requirements, please see the [OpenAI end-to-end baseline reference implementation](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/openai-end-to-end-baseline).

## Architecture

The implementation covers the following scenarios:

1. Authoring a flow - Authoring a flow using Prompt flow in an Azure Machine Learning workspace.
1. Deploying a flow - The client UI is hosted in Azure App Service and accesses the OpenAI service via a Machine Learning managed online endpoint.

### Deploying a flow to Azure Machine Learning managed online endpoint

![Diagram of the deploying a flow to Azure Machine Learning managed online endpoint.](docs/media/openai-end-to-end-basic.png)

The Azure Machine Learning deployment architecture diagram illustrates how a front-end web application connects to a managed online endpoint.

## Deploy

The following are prerequisites.

### Prerequisites

> - Ensure you have an [Azure Account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/)
> - The deployment must be started by a user who has sufficient permissions to assign [roles](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles), such as a User Access Administrator or Owner.
> - Ensure you have the [Azure CLI installed](https://learn.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli)
> - Ensure you have the [az Bicep tools installed](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/bicep/install)
> - Ensure the account working with the Azure Machine Learning Workspace has been granted the 'Cognitive Services OpenAI Contributor' role

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An [Azure Account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/)
- Your user has permissions to assign [Azure roles](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles), such as a User Access Administrator or Owner.
- The [Azure CLI installed](https://learn.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli)
- The [az Bicep tools installed](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/bicep/install)
```

> - Ensure the account working with the Azure Machine Learning Workspace has been granted the 'Cognitive Services OpenAI Contributor' role

Reviewer: > - Ensure the account working with the Azure Machine Learning Workspace has been granted the 'Cognitive Services OpenAI Contributor' role

You'll need to make this a step in the instructions.  Otherwise, as a pre-req, where would you place this?  On the subscription? (hopefully not)

Author: Updated (not subscription, OpenAI instance)

Use the following to deploy the infrastructure.

> ### Deploy the infrastructure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. :rocket: Deploy the infrastructure
```

The following steps are required to deploy the infrastructure from the command line.

> 1. In your bash shell (or VSCode session) with Azure CLI and Bicep installed, navigate to the root directory of this repository.

Reviewer: Do you need to clone the repo first?

Author: Yup. Updated.

> 1. In your bash shell (or VSCode session) with Azure CLI and Bicep installed, navigate to the root directory of this repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In your shell, navigate to the root directory of this repository.
```

1. Login and set subscription

```bash
az login
az account set --subscription xxxxx

> ```

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
   ```bash
   az login
   az account set --subscription xxxxx
   ```
~~~

> 1. Run the following command to create a resource group and deploy the infrastructure. Make sure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a resource group and deploy the infrastructure.

   Make sure:
```

   - The BASE_NAME contains only lowercase letters and is between 6 and 8 characters. Most resource names will include this text.
   - You choose a valid resource group name.

```bash
LOCATION=eastus
BASE_NAME=<base-resource-name (between 6 and 8 lowercase characters)>

RESOURCE_GROUP=<resource-group-name>
az group create -l $LOCATION -n $RESOURCE_GROUP

# This takes about 10 minutes to run.
az deployment group create -f ./infra-as-code/bicep/main.bicep \
  -g $RESOURCE_GROUP \
  -p @./infra-as-code/bicep/parameters.json \
  -p baseName=$BASE_NAME

> ```

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
```bash
   LOCATION=eastus
   BASE_NAME=<base-resource-name (between 6 and 8 lowercase characters)>

   RESOURCE_GROUP=<resource-group-name>
   az group create -l $LOCATION -n $RESOURCE_GROUP

   # This takes about 10 minutes to run.
   az deployment group create -f ./infra-as-code/bicep/main.bicep \
     -g $RESOURCE_GROUP \
     -p @./infra-as-code/bicep/parameters.json \
     -p baseName=$BASE_NAME
   ```
~~~

> ### Create, test, and deploy a Prompt flow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2. Create, test, and deploy a Prompt flow
```

    1. Click the 'Add connection' button
   
1. Clone an existing prompt flow
    1. Click on 'Prompt flow' in the left navigation in Machine Learning Studio
    1. Click on the 'Flows' tab and click 'Create'
    1. Click 'Clone' under 'Chat with Wikipedia'
    1. Name it 'chat_wiki' and Press 'Clone'

1. Connect the Prompt flow to your OpenAI instance
    1. For extract_query_from_question:
       1. For 'Connection,' select your OpenAI instance from the dropdown menu
       1. For 'deployment_name', select 'gpt35' from the dropdown menu
       1. For 'response_format', select '{"type":"text"}' from the dropdown menu
    1. For augmented_chat:
       1. For 'Connection,' select your OpenAI instance from the dropdown menu
       1. For 'deployment_name', select 'gpt35' from the dropdown menu
       1. For 'response_format', select '{"type":"text"}' from the dropdown menu
    1. Click 'Save' to save your changes

1. Test the flow
   - Click 'Start compute session' (This may take around 5 minutes)
   - Click 'Chat' on the UI
   - Enter a question
   - A response to your question should appear on the UI

> ### Deploy to Azure Machine Learning managed online endpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3. Deploy to Azure Machine Learning managed online endpoint
```

1. Create a deployment in the UI

>    - Click on 'Deploy' in the UI
>    - Choose 'Existing' Endpoint and select the one called _ept-<basename>_
>    - Choose a small Virtual Machine size for testing and set the number of instances.
>    - Click 'Review + Create'
>    - Click 'Create'

Reviewer: Ordered steps should use ordered lists.

```suggestion
   1. Click on 'Deploy' in the UI
   1. Choose 'Existing' Endpoint and select the one called _ept-\<basename>_
   1. Choose a small Virtual Machine size for testing and set the number of instances.
   1. Click 'Review + Create'
   1. Click 'Create'
```

> ### Publish the Chat front-end web app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 4. Publish the chat front-end web app
```

The baseline architecture uses [run from zip file in App Service](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/app-service/deploy-run-package). This approach has many benefits, including eliminating file lock conflicts when deploying.

```bash
APPSERVICE_NAME=app-$BASE_NAME

az webapp deploy --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP --name $APPSERVICE_NAME --type zip --src-url https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure-Samples/openai-end-to-end-basic/main/website/chatui.zip
```

> #### Test the deployed application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 5. :checkered_flag: Try it out. Test the deployed application.
```

> After the deployment is complete, you can test the deployed application by navigating to the AppService URL in a web browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the deployment is complete, you can try the deployed application by navigating to the AppService URL in a web browser.  Once you're there, ask your solution a question, ideally one that involves recent data or events, something that would only be known by the RAG process including content from Wikipedia.
```

> ## Clean up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## :broom: Clean up resources
```

> After you are done exploring your deployed AppService reference implementation, you'll want to delete the created Azure resources to prevent undesired costs from accruing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of the Azure resources deployed in the prior steps will incur ongoing charges unless removed.
```

```bash
az group delete --name $RESOURCE_GROUP -y
az keyvault purge -n kv-${BASE_NAME}

> ```

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
```

## Contributions

Please see our [Contributor guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md).

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/). For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or contact <opencode@microsoft.com> with any additional questions or comments.

With :heart: from Azure Patterns & Practices, [Azure Architecture Center](https://azure.com/architecture).
~~~

     -p @./infra-as-code/bicep/parameters.json \
     -p baseName=$BASE_NAME
   ```

### 2. Create, test, and deploy a Prompt flow

1. Open the [Machine Learning Workspace](https://ml.azure.com/) and choose your workspace. Ensure you have [enabled Prompt flow in your Azure Machine Learning workspace](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/machine-learning/prompt-flow/get-started-prompt-flow?view=azureml-api-2#prerequisites-enable-prompt-flow-in-your-azure-machine-learning-workspace).

1. Create a prompt flow connection to your gpt35 Azure OpenAI deployment. This will be used by the prompt flow you clone in the next step.
    1. Click on 'Connections' in the left navigation in Machine Learning Studio
    1. Click the 'Create' button
    1. Click 'Azure OpenAI Service'
    1. Your OpenAI instance should be displayed.  Change the Authentication method to 'Microsoft Entra ID'
    1. Click the 'Add connection' button
   
1. Clone an existing prompt flow
    1. Click on 'Prompt flow' in the left navigation in Machine Learning Studio
    1. Click on the 'Flows' tab and click 'Create'
    1. Click 'Clone' under 'Chat with Wikipedia'
    1. Name it 'chat_wiki' and Press 'Clone'

> 1. Connect the Prompt flow to your OpenAI instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Connect the Prompt flow to your Azure OpenAI instance
```

- Creating prompts
- Querying data stores for grounding data
- Python code
- Calling Large Language Models (LLMs)

The reference implementation illustrates a basic example of a chat application.  For a reference implementation that implements enterprise requirements, please see the [OpenAI end-to-end baseline reference implementation](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/openai-end-to-end-baseline).

## Architecture

The implementation covers the following scenarios:

1. Authoring a flow - Authoring a flow using Prompt flow in an Azure Machine Learning workspace.
1. Deploying a flow - The client UI is hosted in Azure App Service and accesses the OpenAI service via a Machine Learning managed online endpoint.

### Deploying a flow to Azure Machine Learning managed online endpoint

![Diagram of the deploying a flow to Azure Machine Learning managed online endpoint.](docs/media/openai-end-to-end-basic.png)

The Azure Machine Learning deployment architecture diagram illustrates how a front-end web application connects to a managed online endpoint.

> ## Deploy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deployment guide

Follow these instructions to deploy this example to your Azure subscription, try out what you've deployed, and learn how to clean up those resources.
```

> The following are prerequisites.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Prerequisites

- An [Azure Account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/)
- Your user has permissions to assign [Azure roles](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles), such as a User Access Administrator or Owner.
- The [Azure CLI installed](https://learn.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli)
- The [az Bicep tools installed](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/bicep/install)

Use the following to deploy the infrastructure.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### 1. :rocket: Deploy the infrastructure

The following steps are required to deploy the infrastructure from the command line.

1. In your shell, navigate to the root directory of this repository.

1. Login and set subscription

   ```bash
   az login
   az account set --subscription xxxxx
   ```

1. Create a resource group and deploy the infrastructure.

   Make sure:

   - The BASE_NAME contains only lowercase letters and is between 6 and 8 characters. Most resource names will include this text.
   - You choose a valid resource group name.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
   ```bash
~~~

    1. Your OpenAI instance should be displayed.  Change the Authentication method to 'Microsoft Entra ID'
    1. Click the 'Add connection' button
   
1. Clone an existing prompt flow
    1. Click on 'Prompt flow' in the left navigation in Machine Learning Studio
    1. Click on the 'Flows' tab and click 'Create'
    1. Click 'Clone' under 'Chat with Wikipedia'
    1. Name it 'chat_wiki' and Press 'Clone'

1. Connect the Prompt flow to your OpenAI instance
    1. For extract_query_from_question:
       1. For 'Connection,' select your OpenAI instance from the dropdown menu
       1. For 'deployment_name', select 'gpt35' from the dropdown menu
       1. For 'response_format', select '{"type":"text"}' from the dropdown menu
    1. For augmented_chat:
       1. For 'Connection,' select your OpenAI instance from the dropdown menu
       1. For 'deployment_name', select 'gpt35' from the dropdown menu
       1. For 'response_format', select '{"type":"text"}' from the dropdown menu
    1. Click 'Save' to save your changes

1. Test the flow
   - Click 'Start compute session' (This may take around 5 minutes)
   - Click 'Chat' on the UI
   - Enter a question

>    - A response to your question should appear on the UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Click 'Start compute session' (This may take around 5 minutes)
   1. Click 'Chat' on the UI
   1. Enter a question
   1. A response to your question should appear on the UI
```

### 3. Deploy to Azure Machine Learning managed online endpoint

1. Create a deployment in the UI

   1. Click on 'Deploy' in the UI
   1. Choose 'Existing' Endpoint and select the one called _ept-\<basename>_
   1. Choose a small Virtual Machine size for testing and set the number of instances.
   1. Click 'Review + Create'
   1. Click 'Create'

### 4. Publish the chat front-end web app

The baseline architecture uses [run from zip file in App Service](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/app-service/deploy-run-package). This approach has many benefits, including eliminating file lock conflicts when deploying.

```bash
APPSERVICE_NAME=app-$BASE_NAME

az webapp deploy --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP --name $APPSERVICE_NAME --type zip --src-url https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure-Samples/openai-end-to-end-basic/main/website/chatui.zip
```

> #### 5. :checkered_flag: Try it out. Test the deployed application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## :checkered_flag: Try it out. Test the deployed application.
```

1. In your shell, clone this repo and navigate to the root directory of this repository.

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Azure-Samples/openai-end-to-end-basic
   cd openai-end-to-end-basic
   ```

1. Login and set subscription

   ```bash
   az login
   az account set --subscription xxxxx
   ```

1. Create a resource group and deploy the infrastructure.

   Make sure:

   - The BASE_NAME contains only lowercase letters and is between 6 and 8 characters. Most resource names will include this text.
   - You choose a valid resource group name.

   ```bash
   LOCATION=eastus
   BASE_NAME=<base-resource-name (between 6 and 8 lowercase characters)>

   RESOURCE_GROUP=<resource-group-name>
   az group create -l $LOCATION -n $RESOURCE_GROUP

   # This takes about 10 minutes to run.
   az deployment group create -f ./infra-as-code/bicep/main.bicep \
     -g $RESOURCE_GROUP \
     -p @./infra-as-code/bicep/parameters.json \
     -p baseName=$BASE_NAME
   ```
1. Assign your account the `Cognitive Services OpenAI Contributor` role on the Azure OpenAI instance.  This is required to interact with the Azure OpenAI Service via the Machine Learning Workspace.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

1. Assign your account the `Cognitive Services OpenAI Contributor` role on the Azure OpenAI instance.  This is required to interact with the Azure OpenAI Service via the Machine Learning Workspace.
```

### 2. Create, test, and deploy a Prompt flow

> 1. Open the [Machine Learning Workspace](https://ml.azure.com/) and choose your workspace. Ensure you have [enabled Prompt flow in your Azure Machine Learning workspace](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/machine-learning/prompt-flow/get-started-prompt-flow?view=azureml-api-2#prerequisites-enable-prompt-flow-in-your-azure-machine-learning-workspace).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open the [Machine Learning Workspace](https://ml.azure.com/) and choose your workspace. Ensure you have [enabled Prompt flow in your Azure Machine Learning workspace](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/machine-learning/prompt-flow/get-started-prompt-flow#prerequisites-enable-prompt-flow-in-your-azure-machine-learning-workspace).
```
